HELPPC 1.5      PC Programmers Utility      Copyright (c) 1989, David Jurgens

Background
==========

This utility is comprised of a collection of information found in manufacturer
technical reference manuals, various commercial books, technical topics
discussed on CompuServe, public domain articles and my own snooping.  All
organized in a single database.  The help topics includes BIOS interrupts, DOS
interrupts and functions, EMS functions, Mouse functions, BIOS and DOS data
structures, diagnostic codes, DOS commands, 80x86 assembler
instructions/directives and Standard C functions.

As programmers, we tend to gather massive amounts of books, journals and
magazines.   Most of these items have some important detail that is generally
out of reach since we can't carry them everywhere.   That's why I started this
project, to free myself from having to first find the manuals or articles and
then weed through all the mundane text to get to a simple answer.   In the
past few years it has saved me a lot of time previously spent rummaging
through manuals.  I do occasionally pick up my war torn copies of Norton and
Duncan.  You'll find the screen displays are brief and to the point.  So, if
you need more in depth information, I'd recommend Peter Norton's "Programmers
Guide to the IBMPC", Ray Duncan's  "Advanced MSDOS for C and Assembler",
Compute's  "Mapping the IBMPC and PCjr", a variety of the IBM Technical
Reference Manuals.

The program which is less that 5K in size is written in Turbo C with a little
TASM sprinkled in for optimization.

Audience
========

This program is designed for the PC programmer who knows what he's doing, but
just can't remember the syntax, or parameters to some little used BIOS/DOS
interrupt, BIOS/DOS data structure, C function, assembler instruction or just
about any technical issue on the PC or PS/2.

Usage
=====

Type TechRef at the DOS prompt for a description of how to use this program
and the possible arguments.   For information on proper installation type
TechRef while in the directory containing the GENERIC.HLP file.

Aborting
========

The Esc key or a  Ctrl C  can be used to abort the program display.

43/50 Line users
================

43/50 line mode will display different behavior than the 25 line mode. Many
version of DOS only understand 25 line screens, so TechRef clears lines 25/43
on exit to avoid an odd screen display.  This is a problem in DOS and not
TechRef.

Files in Release
================

README      -  The file you're reading now.

TechRef.COM -  A display utility that reads the indexed database and displays
               the information.   Type TechRef for a description of usage.
               I recommend that you rename this program to something you find
               convenient to use like "H.COM" or "HELP.COM".

GENERIC.HLP -  Is the forever growing database file containing all the
               technical data and a built in index.   TechRef.COM finds this
               file through the environment variable "HLP".  Versions of this
               database without the C and/or assembler instructions are
               available to alleviate disk requirements.


Installation
============

Installation requires two steps.  First, simply dearchive the TechRef.ARC
file.   Second issue the following command:

SET HLP=d:dirname           (no blanks, except between "SET HLP")

where d: id the drive and dirname is the directory where the GENERIC.HLP file
exists. The TechRef.COM file can exist anywhere that it can be accessed
through the DOS command search path (PATH).

The name TechRef was chosen to avoid conflict with the HELP command available
with later versions of DOS.  I'd recommend that you rename TechRef.COM to a
name you find convenient and easy to remember like "H.COM" or "HELP.COM".
For a description command usage, type TechRef at the DOS prompt with no
arguments.


In Closing
==========

Try it, break it or just tell me what you did or didn't like about it or what
you'd like to see added.   If you find any discrepancies, errors or typos, I
would appreciate corrections and any suggestions for improvement. If at all
possible, please contact me using one of the below addresses and I will try to
correct the problem.   A TSR version and the help file generator will soon be
released as shareware.

Also, if you distribute this software, I ask that you distribute it in it's
original .ZIP or LHARC form, without modification.   This version is freeware
and may be distributed freely, as long as no one profits from the sale.  This
excludes a modest disk duplication fee charged by most user groups. While on
the subject, please support your local computer user groups.  These are the
best sources of help and information available.  As the Columbus Computer
Society slogan says it's "The Best Investment For Your PC".  I am an active
member of the Columbus Computer Society and have learned a great deal about
computers and other subjects from my interactions.

